# Vaccine-Hesitancy-NLP
 
Public acceptance toward the COVID-19 vaccines are critical factors for governments looking to curtail the spread of the virus and accelerate economic recovery through vaccination programs. Vaccine hesitancy is increasing due to the proliferation of fake news sources and a general anti-science sentiment, and due to justifiable concerns over the vaccines’ rapid developmental and testing phase. To inform successful vaccination campaigns, we provide governments with a visual tool to help track vaccine hesitancy over time and geography. This visual tool condenses the public’s opinion using natural language processing (NLP) techniques applied to a comprehensive dataset of Tweets related to COVID-19 vaccination. Topic modelling and sentiment analysis techniques are applied to a data pipeline to produce reliable information regarding users’ general sentiment towards vaccines and the themes and topics associated with those sentiments. The project was fulfilled over a year span, in which we worked alongside Amaris Consulting. Prior to implementation of the system previously detailed, we conducted a literature review of vaccine hesitancy, natural language processing techniques and software necessary to analyze massive text-based datasets, as well as a mathematical review of the machine learning models to be implemented. We have developed a data pipeline, developed filtering, preprocessing and text vectorization techniques, as well as topic modelling and sentiment analysis models leveraging BERT. Additionally, we provided performance benchmarks to BERT architectures by using Multinomial Naive Bayes, Logistic Regression and Latent Dirichlet allocation. Data visualizations were also created to display our findings. 
